---
title: 'Doors.'
description: 'A random writup.'
pubDate: 'Oct 01 2024'
---

In life, we pass through many doors. Some tall. Some big and
heavy. Some fancy. Some made of wood, some made of something
else. Why doors? Why such an article at all?

If we ask the historians, they say the Egyptians used doors
inside tombs to signify the transition to the afterlife. The
Mesopotamians used them as protection. Not in a way doors
today protect us. But in a way a sacred thread guards you from
evil. What about the Greeks then? Well, they weren’t dramatic
about the doors at least. In Greek, they were just doors.

Now, let’s keep the doors shut for a moment. It’s been a few
months since I walked out of Palghat Lions School as a student
(only on paper). Some such doors in your life bring about a
metamorphosis, which is inevitable and irresoluble. If you’ve
made it so far into my dully printed and illustration-less
paragraphs, then the trajectory of your life is probably
tending to one such door. One you’ll look back at and wish you
had paid more attention to.

> “Life moves pretty fast. If you don’t stop and look around once in a while, you could miss it.”

For a quote from a relatively slower world of 1986, Ferris
Bueller’s fourth wall break was a plea to the future in
disguise. A future immersed in media that grants instant
gratification. A future where information overload numbs your
brain. A future where physical media is sacrificed for clickdriven sensationalism. The relentless pursuit of novelty and
entertainment erodes attention spans, leaving nuanced
realities and meaningful relations by the wayside. And to walk
off from this feeling and shift down your life’s gears, doors
are just the symbols you need.

Doors aren’t just frames balanced on a hinge. If you look
closely from a door frame, what makes up our life is what
comes before another. You pass one door, live a little, and
then go looking for the next door. A person passes through an
average of 1,400,000 doors in their life. From the one in your
labour room to the one you just passed and many more ahead.
That’s plenty of doors. If you take a moment to look back from
the door you’ve just passed. Let the flash-flood of gone-by
moments arrive and leave, even before you can blink. Life
would not only slow down but the voids and the filler episodes
that run in your head will also reach its grand finale.

Upon graduating high school, I had to take my principles and
routines to the next stage in my academic life. To cater to
this change, I must toggle my surroundings and the characters
in it. That’s where the doors help transition to a
professional course and a new atmosphere. Every door I pass
through, I look back, and retrace my steps from the door
before. And every time it's different. I may pass through the
same door several times. Yet, the chaotic nature of our nature
ensures no two experiences are ever the same.

We’re all passengers of the present, rummaging between the
folds of life with the few mere seconds available to us from
this clock of reality. And it’s only fair to address this
truth while acknowledging that it’s the same for all of us.
Four weeks into college, I've come across a man who is up till
three. What's common between the two of us? The one door we
share.

Paul ettan starts his day at gate number two. He's probably
been a security guard all his life, though he tells me he's
only been at gate two for three years. Every day he stands
guard at the same door. How not picturesque the life of a
security guard is? But not Paul ettan's.

Everyone who passes by him gets greeted with a smile, hidden
underneath his thick white stache, a brisk "good morning" and
a heavy handshake if you're close enough. For a profession
painted with monotonous responsibilities, Paul ettan goes the
extra mile and stands out as someone who notices the
unnoticed. Ultimately forming the basis of his profession, a
security guard.

Now back to the landscapes of Egypt and Mesopotamia. Being the
civilizations who built the pyramids and the hanging gardens
of Babylon, the animistic significance of their doors must be
far from being just baseless superstition. It reveals a
profound know-how of everything, whether material or not. It
reflects the sophistication in their thinking.

In simpler terms, if they had imparted meaning to doors beyond
their lifeless definition, there had to be some truth to it.
Even if we don’t go so far as to call it a “Truth” there has
had to be some tangible result in doing so.

Look around, see the door you just passed? Like a homing
pigeon, try to walk with your thoughts from the door before.
Try to look at the faces you glanced in the way. Try to
search for that one thought you disregarded as random or
useless. 

Feel your heart slow down a bit? By acknowledging the doors
you pass, we get to appreciate the beauty of life’s
ephemerality and the significance of each fleeting moment. So,
let us cherish the doors we pass through, for in their frames
and hinges, we find the stories of our lives – stories of
love, loss, and light.

*- A perspective, Aadil Varsh*

